{
d:d8 Size: The world is...
i:Absolutely Massive. Generations could explore the world, and never see everything
i:Giant. There are many world maps, showing different parts of the world, but none are complete
i:Huge. With concerted effort over many generations, a world map can be created, with many gaps
i:Large. The world is known, but no one man can see it all in a lifetime
i:Medium. While most people don't know then extent of the world, scholars have been able to build some good maps
i:Small. Most people have heard of most parts of the world, even if they have never travelled there
i:Tiny. World-wide commerce is not unheard of
i:Minuscule. The common person could get from one side of the world to the other.
}
{
d:d12 Climate: The world is...
i:Diverse. There exists a little bit of any type of climate somewhere in the world
i:Ice-age. The world is mostly covered in tundra
i:Hot. A cold spot above-ground is difficult to find
i:Dry. The world is devoid of rain
i:Verdant. The world is lush, and mostly uninhabited.
i:A post-apocalyptic wasteland. The world is pock marked with uninhabitable regions
i:Bi-polar. A single day/night cycle can go from extremely hot, to extremely cold
i:Volcanic. Mountains and volcanoes are not uncommon, spewing gasses into the atmosphere{.mountains}
i:Lush. It rains frequently. Jungles cover must of the world, and other regions are a vibrant green{.jungle}
i:Stormy. The world is mostly under a cloud cover, with violent winds, rains, thunder and lightning.
i:Windy. High-velocity winds scour the land
i:Mild. There exists a comfortable amount of sun, rain and cloud-cover.
}
{
d:d10 Land Masses: The world is composed of...
i:Mostly ocean, with the occasional small island
i:A single continent, amidst a massive ocean containing the occasional island{.continents}
i:Several distinct continents{.continents}
i:A single land mass, an no ocean to speak of
i:Many small to medium sized islands speckled throughout the ocean
i:Two distinct continents{.continents}
i:A ring of land, with an ocean in the center
i:Many continents, some joined to others{.continents}
i:Two to three large continents, and a few smaller continents{.continents}
i:No land. The entire world is one giant ocean
}
{
d:d8 Magic in the world is...
i:Non-existent
i:Extremely rare. Though there are a few practitioners of magic, it is mostly in the realm of rumour or legend.
i:Rare. There is usually only one or two people in a region that practice the magical arts
i:Uncommon. Magic is real, but magical feats are considered impressive.
i:Common. It's not unusual to see magic in use
i:Extremely common. Magic is a part of daily life.
i:Powering everything. Magic is so inundated in every contraption, it seems futuristic
i:Wild. Results are never predictable, and strange things occur naturally
}
{
d:d6 Technology in the world is...
i:Primitive. A pulley system is considered complex
i:Technology comes from relics of an age past. No one really understands how it works
i:Basic. There is no electricity nor steam.
i:Steam-powered. Steam powered contraptions can be found
i:Slightly advanced. Gunpowder can be found, as well as steam power contraptions
i:Advanced. Electricity has been discovered
}
{
d:d20 A unique characteristic of this world is...
i:There are multiple moons
i:There are multiple suns
i:The sun rarely sets
i:The world is in the midts of an apocalypse. (See below)
i:The world is hollow. Entire civilizations can be found inside the world
i:Most people live underground
i:The air is toxic
i:The gods have disappeared
i:The pantheon of gods have been replaced by a single all-powerful god{.pantheons}
i:A pandemic ravages the world
i:The sun is a different color (d8): 1. Red; 2. Blue; 3. Green; 4. White; 5. Black; 6. Violet; 7. Purple: 8. Prismatic
i:A civilization lives on the moon
i:The gods walk among the men
i:There is no sun. The world is shrouded in darkness.
i:There is an over-abundance of a mineral (d20): 1. Gold; 2. Silver; 3. Copper; 4. Lead; 5. Granite; 6. Adamantine; 7. Titanium; 8. Iron; 9. Aluminium; 10. Tin; 11. Salt; 12. Sulfur; 13. Cobalt; 14. Nickle; 15. Zinc; 16. Tungsten; 17. Platinum; 18. Electrum; 19. Mercury; 20. Uranium
i:There is an scarcity of a mineral {.mines} (d20): 1. Gold; 2. Silver; 3. Copper; 4. Lead; 5. Granite; 6. Adamantine; 7. Titanium; 8. Iron; 9. Aluminium; 10. Tin; 11. Salt; 12. Sulfur; 13. Cobalt; 14. Nickle; 15. Zinc; 16. Tungsten; 17. Platinum; 18. Electrum; 19. Mercury; 20. Uranium
i:Seasons last for a very long time
i:Rain is toxic
i:No child has been born in a generation
i:No one lives after attaining adulthood
}
{
d:d8 The wold is dominated by...
i:A single race or people{races_core,races_all}.
i:A pair of rival races or people.
i:A large world-spanning empire.
i:A pair of large, rival empires.
i:A patchwork of many nations all vying for power.
i:Warring, militaristic or barbaric clans.
i:No one in particular
i:An other-worldly power
}
{
d:d8 Races: Naturally occurring races include:
i:Only humans
i:Only a single type of demi-human (dwarf, elf, etc){.dwarves,.elves dark,.elves high,.elves wood}
i:Humans and demi-humans
i:Humans, demi-humans, and extra-planar beings
i:Only humans, and a single type of demi-humans
i:Demi-humans are common, but humans are rare
i:Sub-humans, such as goblins, and orcs{.orcs,.orc warlords,.goblins,.goblin gangs}
i:Evolved, intelligent monsters along side humans and demi-humans
}
{
d:d20 A cataclysm that faced this world in the past was...
i:Meteors that ravaged the land
i:An ice-age, of which only the strong could survive
i:A world-wide flood that only the smart could survive
i:A world-wide dust storm that lasted for a generation
i:An advanced civilization that destroyed their own planet, leaving only what you see
i:Famine wracked the land for many generations
i:A war between gods spilled out into the material plane, and nearly destroyed it
i:A war between dragons decimated any semblance of society
i:Invasions from an extra-planar species
i:The birth of magic.
i:Magic became wild and unpredictable
i:Overpopulation. There just weren't enough resources to support all of the people living in the world, and 99% of them died of hunger
i:A man made super-weapon that destroyed the world{.legendary weapons}
i:The core of the world became unstable, and it was being torn asunder.
i:A new species was born or discovered that tried to take over the world. (d12): 1. Dragons; 2. Mind-flayers; 3. Dark elves{.elves dark,.elves high,.elves wood}; 4. A vampire{.vampires}; 5. A lich; 6. A fiend{.fiends}; 7; A celestial{.beasts celestial}; 8. A beholder; 9. Dinosaurs; 10. Dopplegangers; 11. Mimics; 12. Titans
i:The living never stayed dead, and the undead nearly overran everything
i:A fool wizard performed a wish spell that tore at the very fabric of existence
i:The material plane crossed with another plane causing the planes to bleed into each other (d20) 1. The Astral Plane; 2. The Ethereal Plane; 3. The Feywild{.beasts fey}; 4. Shadowfell; 5. The Elemental Plane of Air; 6. The Elemental Plane of Earth; 7. The Elemental Plane of Water; 8. The Elemental Plane of Fire; 9. Pandemonium; 10. The Abyss; 11. The Blessed Fields of Elysium; 12. The Wilderness of The Beastlands; 13. The Olympian Glades of Arborea; 14. The Heroic Domains of Ysgard; 15. The Ever-Changing Chaos of Limbo; 16. The Tarterian Depths of Carceri; 17. The Gray Waste of Hades; 18. The Bleak Eternity of Gehenna; 19. The Nine Hells of Baator; 20. The Infinite Battlefield of Acheron
i:The magnetic polar fields switched
i:The world was split down the middle, now two worlds orbit each other in close proximity.
}
{
d:d20 The word was created by (Individual legends may vary)...
i:Billions of years of evolution
i:A single creator god
i:A momentary merge of the elemental planes
i:As a peace offering between two warring gods
i:As an offering of love from one god in love with another
i:By a young, defiant god attempting to create something unheard of
i:By an ancient civilization searching for the question to the answer of life, the universe, and everything
i:It was hatched from the egg of a world-bearing chicken
i:It wasn't. It has always been, and will always be
i:It is one of many created by an immortal governing council.
i:As the result of a wish spell
i:It only exists in a snow globe created by a child, who in turn lives in a snow globe created by a child, who in turn...
i:It started in the realm of imagination and become wholly realized through a chance run-in with the astral plane.
i:A council of dragons pieced it together from favored parts of their home worlds
i:It was created as an experiment run-amok by a god
i:World creation was a pass-time of bored gods, who frequently made worlds, trying to one-up each other
i:It was created as one of many experiments by a council of gods trying to discover... (d8) 1. The soul; 2. True sentience and free-will; 3. A purpose for their eternity; 4. A new form of magic; 5. A superior species that would some day replace them; 6. A superior species that would some day serve them; 7. A superior species that would be pit against another council's species in a game of war; 8. A new non-naturally occurring material, such as plastic.
i:Two worlds colliding together
i:It was born in the belly of a god-dragon, where her god-children warred, and was later cut out of her belly when one of her children committed matricide{.dragons}
i:A world-dragon was butchered and its parts were turned into the sky, water, land, etc.{.dragons}
}