{
d:d6 Type: This institution for magical education is a(n)...
i:Bardic College.
i:Wizarding Boarding School.
i:Sorcery Symposium.
i:Artificing Technical School.
i:Warcaster Boot Camp.
i:Omni-Arcane University.
}
{
d:d6 Site ...
i:...On a floating island above the clouds.
i:...In an idyllic vale surrounded by misty woodlands.
i:...In the centre of a cosmopolitan city.
i:...At the fount of all the world’s magic.
i:...At the foot of a tropical volcano.
i:...On an ancient giant burial ground.
}
{
d:d6 Students are...
i:Elves.
i:Children.
i:Privileged highborns.
i:Military cadets.
i:Troubled youth with magical potential.
i:Second-career adventurers looking to multi-class.
}
{
d:d6 The school's loner/rebel is a(n):
i:Eldritch knight.
i:Arcane trickster.
i:Warlock.
i:Arcane archer.
i:Sorcerer.
i:Monstrous humanoid (d6): 1. Orc; 2. (Hob)Goblin; 3. Drow; 4. Kenku; 5. Vampire; 6. Werewolf.
}
{
d:d6 The magical extracurricular activity of choice is...
i:Catching, raising, and training magical or monstrous pets for tournament-style combat.
i:Practising and performing magic-infused musical pieces.
i:Crafting magical objects, or enchanting mundane items, for sale at the school-run shop.
i:Going on the school-sponsored “retreats:” faculty-led dungeon runs and wilderness expeditions for extra credit.
i:Magical duelling.
i:Pranking local non-magical commoners (and other students) with illusions, enchanted edibles, and other magical hijinks.
}
{
d:d6 The professors are...
i:Retired heroes and adventurers, each with a wealth of experience...
i:Academics and sages, each paragons in their chosen discipline,...
i:Qualified, passionate, and capable educators...
i:Avant-garde theorists...
i:Petty, competitive narcissists working for a paycheck...
i:Villains, out to crush or warp the next generation of magic-users.
}
{
d:d6 ...who...
i:Tend to give students almost careless, laissez-faire treatment.
i:Insist on students' self-control and discipline in their use of magical power.
i:Have ambitions of teaching the world’s greatest mages.
i:Use students as unwitting test subjects for new spells, potions, and magic items.
i:Give each student all the personal attention and customized instruction they need to excel as mages and as fully actualized individuals.
i:Use competition and shame to motivate their pupils.
}
{
d:d6 The staff (the cooks, custodians, groundskeepers, etc.) are mostly...
i:Kindly brownies, working in exchange for room and board,...
i:Trod-upon goblins,...
i:Gnomes,...
i:Animated objects,...
i:Constructed homunculi,...
i:Rustic commoners who are in awe of the simplest magicks,...
i:...But there is a(n)...
i:Ogre, who is in charge of waste disposal.
i:Centaur, who is in charge of campus security.
i:Kobold office manager, who is the face of the institution.
i:Fire Genasi, who runs the kitchens.
i:Satyr, whose goats graze the vast lawns.
i:Tortle, who keeps the time and sounds a massive gong to signal the changing of class periods.
i:The school is run by...
i:A domineering but out-of-touch board of directors.
i:An absentee headmaster.
i:A saccharine governess.
i:A group of wizened, benign archmages.
i:A sarcastic lich.
i:A demoted deity of magic and knowledge.
i:The grounds are protected by:
i:An elite group of rangers.
i:Explosive Glyphs of Warding.
i:Complex illusions.
i:A dragon.
i:Elaborate traps, bordering on the excessive.
i:Undead.
i:The school’s hospital wing is filled with...
i:Cabinets of healing potions.
i:Ill and injured locals for the students to practice their healing spells on.
i:Students suffering from magical mishaps sustained during their absurd shenanigans after hours.
i:The clumsy students whose magical mistakes consistently backfire.
i:Polymorphed animals having identity crises.
i:Monstrous cadavers for anatomical study and classification.
}