{
d:d6 Not-so-bad guys!
i:One Flew Over the Cockatrice's Nest - Rumor has it that a medusa lives in the nearby woods. No one has personally seen the monster, but travelers have reported finding dozens of statues dotted throughout the forest, especially around a thought-to-be-abandoned farmhouse once belonging to a family of halflings. The halflings still live there. Well, Mr. Sacreetch and Mrs. Sacreetch do; their kids have either died or spread themselves across the world. The husband and wife tend to a flock of cockatrices, 22 in all, that protect the small farm house from monsters and intruders. Most of the victims are bandits, criminals, and predatory animals, but a handful are innocent travelers, lost children, and unfortunate adventurers that have been turned to stone. The halflings are friendly enough, but very callous-even sociopaths in their disregard for anyone unlucky enough to be caught out by their cockatrices. "Should've respected our property." Most Good players would be very unhappy with the thought of careless, senile old midgets turning everything within 1 mile of their house into stone, but if the party includes a Druid, that character should be particularly upset by the disregard for wildlife and the damage the duo has done to nature.
i:Don't mind the help - Not all necromancers are evil, right? Spells like Create Undead may disrespect the sanctity of life, but they aren't explicitly evil-just the created undead is. But that's for philosophers to debate. Some armies supplement their forces with the repurposed bodies of the enemy. It's gross but it means the army is endangering less of its own soldiers, right? If a Good army uses necromancy to protect Good people, are they doing anything wrong? So the next time the party encounters a heralded Neutral Good paladin and his band of merry knights, maybe those knights are using ghouls to search for traps and draw arrows. Or maybe the next time the party visits a foreign government, maybe they find zombies, wights, ghouls, and skeletons doing the mopping, cooking, cleaning, and dusting. Maybe a Chaotic Good government doesn't believe the death sentence is good enough for some crimes: Murder and treason result in the undeath sentence, and offenders are stuck as the eternal servants of the kingdom, repaying their debt to society.
i:Government-Sanctioned Murder - The party is walking through the market, enjoying dinner, walking to the weapons store, or otherwise enjoying a quiet evening, and suddenly a well-armored individual draws steel and impales somebody. A fight erupts, with a wizard and a sneak on the armor's side and some mooks on the impaled side. Whether the party gets involved or not, it's broken up by the city watch. Clearly anybody that walks around stabbing people is a bad guy, right? Well, the trio are adventurers, just like the party. Their methods may have endangered innocent passersby, but they killed a wanted criminal. And if the party has anything to say about it, you can reply with "Well look at all the stupid shit you've done to endanger random people." As an added kicker, you can give the other trio badges, letters, orders, medals, pins, or something that signifies that they're "Sanctioned adventurers" (or a similar title). If the party wants their own set, they'll have to fill out a stack of paperwork, make a "donation" to the city, and jump through a huge number of hoops. Anyone who is Lawful Good or Lawful Neutral should be excited by the prospect.
i:A mimic! The party encounters something that is clearly a mimic, but it's non-hostile. Similarly, an ogre with head trauma that is afraid of the party, or a chromatic dragon that isn't evil: Two creatures that are associated with nothing but evil, just looking for a friend.
i:Ordning-Based Free Market Principles - The party encounters a town, village, or accosted travelers that are cowering before a Fire or Stone giant. The giant is not demanding their livestock, goods, or slaves: He is confused and upset at the total lack of functional government and culture exhibited by (his words) "stupid hoo-mans." The giant is attempting to convince his subjects (which are of all races, but he can't tell them apart) to organize themselves according to The Ordning, to have the tallest person in charge and the smallest person at the bottom. These innocent people already have their own form of government (be it feudal, democratic, or otherwise), but have made no success trying to explain it to the giant. The party can decide to handle the situation with negotiation, convincing the giant that he's wrong, this isn't worth his time, or installing him as the new head of government, if they would like. Otherwise they could try to kill him.
i:The Old Man and the Sea Monster - A fisherman and a Lizardfolk are in a heated argument, which appears to be only an insult or two away from turning violent. They made a friendly wager for a few silver pieces over which could capture more fish from a particular crick or pond in a set amount of time. The fisherman is accusing the Lizardfolk of being a cheater and the Lizardfolk is accusing the fisherman of being a liar. The fishermen used a fishing pole. The Lizardfolk used his pet alligator. The alligator clearly caught the most fish by the amount of blood and fish bits in the grass and floating in the water, but the fishermen doesn't believe that counts as fishing.
}