{
d:D100 Plot hook
i:A Druid Priest calling himself the “Rat King” has moved into the sewers/caves/mines/dungeon of a local town. All rats follow is command. He sees through all rats. He can spread disease, steal, murder, do whatever he can with complete control over rats.
i:Aegir, the giantess mage-lord, already has the robes of the magi, the staff of the magi, and a spell storing ring, but now she wants a rod of absorption. She’ll accompany you, but doesn’t care for your safety. She only wants magic.
i:A galactic ranger has crashed down and needs help repairing his ship/protecting his ship/taking care of a bounty. Galactic rangers always have a robe of stars, ring of stars, and a star bow, which acts as a normal bow but can also shoot magic missiles.
i:A strange merchant tells you to meet him outside of town after dark. The merchant is none other than Desmond Drake, the masked vigilante monk who fights crime and is hunting for the murderer of his daughter. He likes the cut of your jib.
i:Sitting in the road, around a fire, is a teenage teifling. She has a displacer beat tentacle around her waist, dragon tooth necklace, a bag of holding with trophies, and a greatsword. She’s preparing for her next hunt. Would you care to join?
i:A grey owl of the Black Dot drops in on you while you sleep. He seeks vengeance for the corruption that has hit his sect nearby. Help him cleanse the temple and the Black Dot will owe you a favor.
i:Up ahead a rusty warforged sits moaning in the road, blocking the path. He says he needs assistance in getting up. His female, halfling, mechanic, sniper sits at a distance, trained to shoot anyone who enters. Their aim is to rob. But they can become friends if you like to steal…
i:There’s a mechanical “dog” eating the metal in town. It belongs to Radiowave, an elf with a television helmet which shows her the dreams of those she sees. She’s looking for love and her dog is looking for food. She’ll devote her life to the first person she sees dreaming of her.
i:Carlisle Edgar wears the skull of a T-Rex and has a whistle that can summon 1d4 undead velociraptors. He wants revenge on the party that abandoned him and is willing to do anything to do it, even hire you.
i:A roc circles the town and foretells the arrival of Adeyn Y Corph, the spirit of death. Flowers bloom out of season, snow falls not matter the temperature. And someone will die. But who? When? And how?
i:Dragons seek Alderly Edge for a place to rest and for help. The ancient elf is a friend to dragons and lives with his wyrmling dragon (roll a d10 to determine color). Maybe a dragon is asking for your help to find him, or maybe Alderly is asking you to find a resting place for it?
i:The next place you go (wagon, bar, town, cabin, dungeon) is being held hostage by Morgan le Fay, evil sorceress and wild magician. Her right hand is locked in a cage and acts as a rod of wonder (roll on the table of random magical effect form Courtney Campbell).
i:A cursed elf turns everything he touches into mud. He cannot die because weapons that touch him turn to mud. But he wants to die. He, and quite a few high level clerics, believe he can only be killed as a god can (lava, tossed into space, pandora’s box, etc.).
i:A female elf from the shores of your last nightmare. She’s real now. Always has been. She’s going around selling your memories. She’s very (insert your personality) and only wants (insert your goals). So if you can do that for her, maybe she’ll (insert your retirement plan) for you.
i:A serial killer. Decapitation. The town wants you to investigate. It’s the Face Stealer, an enigmatic spirit that steals humanity through the removal of one’s head. Then, in creepy fashion, attaches it to their own body. The more they’ve collected, the more powerful.
i:Children have gone missing. It’s the fault of a Bed Gaunt, a being of shadows that craves affection. They say it’s the spirit of all beds never slept on. They like to dwell in wells that go too deep, ruins that have gone unsearched, or the bar closet.
i:Halt, ugly-one. The Lady Space Princess Magnifica wants that cute thing you have. She’s coldly beautiful and wears a headband with infrared lasers that control the space crystals that float about her head. She can use them to fly, fire disintegration rays, and other laser/crystal stuff.
i:Klaura Eddinborough does all manner of quests for gold and sends it back to her poor village. The blade she holds is the first dragon slayer and is worth more than any king could muster. She does not know this. Her sidekick Klaura, the light spirit who travels in her lantern and only speak sylvan (which Klaura does not), knows of the blade and uses her power to protect them from the scrying eyes of the ancient dragon that is trying to find them.
i:You’ve been challenged to a spell-sword duel. Only spell-swords may apply. Liza, the child prodigy, imbued with ice so that her heart beats slow like the dead, is looking for a good challenge. She’s resistant to fire and her blade causes frostbite on exposed skin.
i:Twirl is a young girl and from a family with means. But she left that all behind, she swears, though she wears the best clothes and sleeps in the best inns. She left it behind because Claus, the dire tiger (who can speak) came to her one night and said he was sent form the Great Stag himself to tell Twirly that she was meant for greatness. Now they travel together in search of the Great Stag.
i:Maya Drape is on the hunt and could use some help. She’s a black-haired raven of a woman with a hawk that sits upon her shoulder. The hawk is a spirit of luck, her blade is a luck blade, and her armor is poisons those around her (yes, even you if she chooses).
i:The Red Devil Slayer Brood is in town, or on tour (whatever) and they want to do the Pub Crawl with you. Need I say more?
i:In a small cabin, somewhere remote, an old-ass man sits in his chair and calls out for adventurers. He says there’s tiny creatures under his fireplace and they keep stealing all the shit he drops. Help him and you get to keep half! (Teeny Tiny Dungeon)
i:Someone somewhere asks you to check out his book for him. It’s called the Quintessential Dungeon, a Book by Quilliam Doyle, adventure extraordinaire. Touch it and it sucks you in. Find a way to escape. (The Last Library)
i:Famous dragon rider, Ouma Lewanoski, gave birth to a half-dragon. The first of its kind. People want her dead. People want to talk to her. People want to know what dragon and how? But she’ll only talk to the PCs…
i:A doppelganger was discovered in the mayor’s place. But everyone agrees that he’s better than the old. Family wants the old mayor found, but who else is a doppelganger? Where did they come from? Where did the real ones go?
i:A family’s house pet is really an arch druid. All the pets are druids. They are secretly controlling the town into eliminating the nearby druid circle. Maybe you’re hired by them? Maybe the town brings you in as mercenaries?
i:A normal well starts granting the wishes people make at them but only for sweets, not gold, and only in weird ways. A fairie dragon lives in the well and makes illusions and spells (like polymorph) to grant these wishes.
i:The sign says, “The Sea Devil’s Stout”. A series of rope bridges lead out to what appears to be an inn atop a spit of rock. A woman begins to scream in the inn. She says that her child was dragged into the basement by rats. She only just started working here. (The Sea Devil’s Stout)
i:Upon the backs of thousands of undead, the Shambling Throne marches on, paving destruction in its wake. Can you stop it? (Shambling throne of the Death Cult King)
i:Legend has it that a True Wish will be granted to those who climb the Sky-Blind Spire. Many have tried and all have failed. There’s a secret to it, they say. And it involves arithmetic. (The Sky Blind Spire)
i:Ten standing stones surround a pit in the ground that seems endless. (Descendant)
i:Several Hill Giants want their apples back from the Frost Giants. Pick a side and beat some ass.
i:A druid circle believes the sun is dying. Take this special arrow and fire it from the tallest peak in the region. Hit the sun and save us all.
i:Atli, a hill giant, invited the party to his home for dinner and for a quest. While at the dinner he tries to poison them, ambush them, and take all of their gold. He’s not too smart though and often lets slip his plans.
i:Several emaciated dwarfs are looking for help hunting down Andvari, the giant who is taking dwarven slaves. Andvari has a helm of invisibility and several powerful rings (ring of spell storing/turning, some others).
i:A white dragon lives in Astolat, a small village in the frigid wastes. Dragon slayers want her dead. Adventurers want her treasure. But no one has been able to find her. The town says there is no dragon. But really the dragon hides among them as a human.
i:Mount Erith is a sacred resting place for dragons, and rumor has it that simply uncovering their tombs will resurrect the dragons. Morgan le Fay knows this and is going to cause chaos.
i:Avalon is an island of Fey where the nymph Avalon was born, but where Moran le Fay lives now. She protects the Forge and keeps the soul of Arthur the dragon trapped there (but only if he’s died already).
i:A small town is dominated by a cult of “good”, who sacrifice a virgin every full moon to appease a demon and protect their town from the undead. Stopping the sacrifice brings the fury of the demon down.
i:A powerful sword is petrified with its owner. Rumor has it that if he’s freed then he will grant his sword and his wealth to his saviors. Problem is, only a kiss from his true love, who died 180 years ago, will free him.
i:Two armies clash at a pass where two Giants are playing chess, and have been playing chess for thousands of years. They won’t move until the game is over and the armies are getting restless. The giant’s last move was 80 years ago.
i:Knight Princess Luna Colstock, is getting married against her will. She’s a fighter after all. If you can clear the field of her suitors, then she’ll allow you the chance to best her in combat. Winning gets you the “Knights Crest” which allows you to summon any knight you defeat in single combat.
i:It’s a full moon and the town you’re in needs help defending itself from the undead. Please help us!
i:Arthur, Lancelot, Gawain, Geraint, Percival, Bors the Younger, Lamorak, Lay, Gareth, Bedivere, Gaheris, Galahad, and Tristan all come down from space and circle you, landing safely. They want your help defeating an army. (If done second, a few are dead)
i:Same as above but they want help killing a fellow dragon. (A few are dead)
i:A Psycho Squad paladin seeks you out because there’s a dangerous mission. They believe they’ve caught a killer that has been on the loose for generations. To prove it though, they need you to go inside his head and get a confession.
i:The party runs into Dire Stars, a rival adventuring party. There’s sure to be some conflict here. (You posted about it on Reddit)
i:The Lookouts of Goblintown come to you with a bounty they can’t handle on their own. Two Rakshasa lovers have taken a town hostage for their honeymoon. Even low level characters can do this one if they’re clever.
i:The demon Xylo is willing to grant a powerful weapon to anyone who brings him the soul of the Wraith that dwells on the Ghosttown Isle.
i:You wake up with part of a treasure map tattooed on your back. It burns when gold is near it. And clerics refuse to touch it with bare skin. Animals are attracted to it but druids stay away.
i:The caves of chaos have claimed another victim or a prisoner, or they hold a bunch of gold, or that guy you hate a whole lot is there. Regardless, someone wants you to go there and kill some things. You can roll this one multiple times until the shit is cleared. (Caves of Chaos)
i:The three legendary items are stored in White Plume Mountain. Go and fetch them. Or maybe you’re paid to do it. Whatever. (White Plume Mountain)
i:Three hundred dead octopuses wash up on the shore of a lake. Dead marine life increasingly appears wherever the PCs go, no matter how far they are from water. Then, the dead creatures rise as undead.
i:A dragon has recently been laid to rest and it’s a race to the hoard. Adventuring parties from across the realm are marching their way to the lair, as well as other dragons, but the PCs believe they have a head start. The dragon really just wants more treasure and is still alive.
i:While staying in a small inn, a man suddenly breaks out in red boils and dies. Checks reveal that everyone has contracted the Crimson Plague, including the PCs. They have only 3 days to discover or create a cure.
i:A town is thrown into joyous chaos as a gold-spawning spirit (inherently good) wants affection and is willing to buy it. (Think Spirited Away when you roll this one)
i:A medusa who has been on “vacation” for a thousand years, has returned to say that the village the PCs are in used to be her garden. And she begins to petrify people to remake her stone garden.
i:Avalon the Nymph sees you as the perfect mate…
i:The party is tasked with getting a rogue Psycho Squad paladin from his prison safe house to the trial so he can be given his sentence. He will do anything to escape.
i:A town complained about a falling star yesterday. It’s really a crashed UFO. Who could be on it? Alien? Galactic Ranger? Could it be a dungeon (Barrier Peak)? Or something else?
i:A powerful wizard is hosting his famous masquerade ball in town where all the guests are polymorphed into a random monster. There could be a real monster there, or an assassination attempt, or just jolly-good fun. This can be rolled more than once to represent the moving party.
i:You hear rumor of a mystery dungeon in the cellar of a nearby Inn. Many adventurers are going to claim their share. But in reality, when you get to the Inn, there is no dungeon. And now there are a lot of angry adventurers in one tiny spot…
i:A silver dragon leads a crusade like the Spanish inquisition, going around and “converting” people to a new religion. Lower level players might just run into a small cult or something.
i:A great fog that is giving people amnesia and causing madness sweeps across the land. Everyone knows it’s the dragon on the hill. It’s dying. It needs to be finished off.
i:You wander into a druid circle. Even druids in the party know this is a bad thing and that you need to leave before they see you as a threat. But there’s something shiny in there! Or it’s easier to cut through…what do you do?
i:An entire village is made up living spells made to look like real people, created by a dream spirit that feeds off of a sleeping wizard’s dreams of the life he always wanted.
i:A certain druid circle worships a “Tree Angle” which protects the forest, but the forest is getting aggressive and spreading. The Lookouts are on the job.
i:Rumors of an ancient artifact, “the most powerful one ever!” lead the PCs to an evil, intelligent, dancing sword that can animate other weapons to fight for it. The town it’s in is forced to go along with the sword’s demands or they’ll be killed.
i:The party stumbles upon the body fields of one of the bandit kingdoms wars. If going through it, the party will see a necromancer and his corpse collector golem raising the fallen as undead. They aren’t evil, the two, but I guess that’s speculative.
i:A treant will aid the party in some way (gp, magic, info) but only if they agree to be shrunk down to clear out an infestation of insects that invaded his twisted roots. (The Rusty Ziggurat)
i:The party is invited to partake in a card tournament (poker, munchkin, MTG, Gwent) for huge cash prizes in a capitol city amongst the best players in the field.
i:A grandmotherly, if slightly senile, NPC asks the players to rid her attic of rats. The rats are in fact a group of thieves trying to open a magical doorway left by the wizard that previously owned the home.
i:A dungeon delving tournament is held. The party is strapped with revivifying stones which will reincarnate them at the beginning of the dungeon. The Party to collect the most gold will get to keep it and claim championship. (Tomb of Horrors)
i:A colossus is wreaking havoc on the countryside and the party has to slow it down until the champions can arrive.
i:The party’s noticed this strange man in every bar they’ve been in for the past few months. If approached he’ll say he’s got some spirits in town looking to pay top gp for a ride in a body for the night. If the party agrees they’ll get a lot of gold but debauchery will follow.
i:A random party member has just died and the party must resurrect him. But how?
i:A ghostly bard wants help completing his Magnum Opus, which can only be completed by doing a random quest (reroll or something) using only rhymes.
i:A cow murderer runs rampant through a quaint farming community, threatening the arrival of the long forgotten (and made up) Night Eater, a deity of immense power that will eat the sun. The farmers offer a payment of 3 cows per party member.
i:A small theatre troop hires the party to protect their lead actor in his satirical portrayal of a monarch. The Black Dot is after him so they’ll try to poison him, replace fake weapon with real ones, use magic to control other actors, hide in the crowd, etc.
i:Guard 9 comes to the party for a special mission (can be rolled many times and each time cross of one off the additional lists). Carceri prison break, Hellstorm protection, Artifact bank heist, etc.
i:A city lies up ahead, abandoned with no sort of history of human contact. The city is in fact a group of animated objects, including the buildings.
i:All the townspeople in a village have contracted lycanthropy and become were-moose at night. The alchemist upstream of the village’s water supply has been experimenting with dangerous chemicals to turn his beloved pet albino moose, Alabaster, into a sentient best friend.
i:A powerful bounty hunter that is (insert opposite alignment of party) is on the hunt for the party after some action they have taken long ago (make it up or use a previous quest).
i:A devil approaches the party and says that a demon under his care has gone missing, which means they’ve possessed an innocent. The devil will pay to get the demon exorcised.
i:Earthquake!
i:The party is attacked in their rooms/camps by every object present, including their own weapons and armor. A local randomly rolled NPC just discovered they are a powerful wild mage. The nearby town is experiencing the same occurrences.
i:An attractive person approaches one of the party members with an invitation to a party nearby. It’s is a recruitment drive for the deity of love/pleasure and is very hedonistic. This lasts 2 days. The party member may be asked to become a Seeker of the Faith.
i:A stoned giant eats all the livestock and collapses in the town. He needs more food and won’t leave without it.
i:It rains frogs. Tiny ones at first. But they get bigger and bigger until the frog spirit himself arrives and expects a warm welcome.
i:Vortexes start to appear. Ants in a spiral pattern, graffiti on the wall, a baby is born with moles in the shape. It foretells a great storm which will devastate the land. It’s a massive hurricane/typhoon.
i:X the Gold Dragon approaches the party because he wants to write a book about them. But when the party goes into the book to finish it, they find themselves in the position of the monsters. They must pillage the village and finish the book to escape and get rewarded.
i:Words start disappearing from books and scrolls everywhere, and as they disappear from physical sources, they disappear from people’s vocabulary. Within a day no one will be able to speak. The only way to stop this from happening is to answer a riddle…
i:A memetic plague. An infection idea. It’s called Delicious. It spreads in a town and makes their brains delicious. After 10 days a dragon will come down from space to eat all the brains. (check out the goblinpunch blog about it)
i:It’s the party’s day off. They can relax.
i:A Black Knight is going around pissing in town’s water sources, spreading disease. He then poses as a cleric and offers his healing services for pay, cleaning the town out and moving on, usually taking one more piss to plague the town in his absence.
i:A huge dire wolf and its pack of vicious wolves have been haunting an elven wood that a caravan wants to travel through to open trade amongst two cities. The dire wolf is an arch-druid who hates civilization and wants to cover the path in blood and vines.
i:A letter arrives to one of the PCs asking them to represent a princess (roll randomly) in a gladiator duel to the death. The princess addresses the PC by name and acts as if they are great friends, even lovers.
i:Psychopaths follow the insane words of Duldrum, a priest of Pellimore who says he can see the future. He calls for things to burn and his people make it so. He has no fear of the flames and wishes to die in them.
i:The Party is invited to take place in TPK, a game show that pits two adventuring parties against each other. Winner gets glory and gold.
}