{
d:D6 Plumage. The Aarakocra is...
i:Lightly coloured with darker horizontal bands.
i:Dark and lustrous, with a __[roll_on_6]__—colored ________ (d6): 1. Head; 2. Eyes; 3. Throat; 4. Shoulders; 5. Torso; 6. Tail.
i:Reddish-brown in back, lighter in front.
i:Marbled gray all over.
i:Snow white, with silver-tipped feathers.
i:Boldly coloured (d6): 1. Red; 2. Yellow; 3. Green; 4. Blue; 5. Purple; 6. Dual-coloured (roll twice).
}
{
d:d6 Beak. The Aarakocra has a(n)...
i:eagle's hooked beak.
i:heron's slender beak.
i:owl's crunching beak.
i:toucan's ostentatious beak.
i:falcon's tearing beak.
i:kingfisher's spearing beak.
}
{
d:d6 Unusual Feature. ...and...
i:Two large feathery tufts on their head that resemble elven ears.
i:A tall, Mohawk-like crest of feathers.
i:Two whip-like, decorative feathers trailing along their tail.
i:Webbed feet.
i:Overly large eyes.
i:A snood, or fleshy mass, under their beak.
}
{
d:d6 Profession: The Aarakocra is a...
i:Crafter.
i:Hunter.
i:Scout.
i:Sentry.
i:Shaman.
i:Warrior.
}
{
d:d6 Skill: The Aarakocra is particularly good at...
i:Aerial dancing.
i:Sleight of wing.
i:Ink and brush painting.
i:Bushcraft.
i:Singing.
i:Martial meditation forms.
}
{
d:d6 Quirk/flaw: The Aarakocra frequently...
i:Preens their feathers.
i:Stares without blinking.
i:Listens to others with a dramatically cocked head.
i:Takes what isn’t theirs, especially if it’s shiny.
i:Can't understand humanoid body language, social cues, or sarcasm.
i:Belittles and maligns surfacers as small-minded and simple.
}
{
d:d6 Possessions: The Aarakocra is carrying a(n)...
i:Light spear.
i:Barbed net.
i:Whip.
i:Pair of bamboo clubs.
i:Bearded battleaxe.
i:Double-headed glaive.
}
{
d:d6 ...and...
i:A wooden flute.
i:A chipped glass monocle.
i:A pouch of seeds.
i:A pressed leaf from their home nest.
i:A silver compass on a fine chain.
i:A diamond earring.
}
{
d:d6 Immediate goal: The Aarakocra is looking for...
i:Their tribe. It seems they migrated away while she was out scouting.
i:A skyship captain who’s taken something from their colony.
i:More bountiful hunting grounds.
i:A gargoyle missing its left hand.
i:A friend who has gone missing.
i:A new mountain aerie for their tribe to relocate to.
}
{
d:d6 Greater Ambition: The Aarakocra would like to...
i:Recover one of the shards of the Rod of Seven Parts.
i:Destroy a gargoyle in combat.
i:Explore a floating island chain.
i:Become a tribal elder.
i:Locate a temple of Elemental Earth.
i:Experience more of life on the surface.
}
{
d:d6 Enclave: the Aarakocra live together here in...
i:Rooftop “nests” — airy, wicker enclosures on top of the city's buildings.
i:Smallish, open apartments with spacious balconies.
i:Breezy haciendas with wide, circular doorways.
i:A single, sprawling acacia tree, towering over the savanna.
i:A cloud giant's floating palace.
i:On the forested shell of an enormous flying sea turtle.
}
{
d:d20 Among the Aarakocra, you see...
i:A playful contest among several young aarakocra diving down into a ravine, to see who can go deepest before pulling up and flying out again.
i:A wood elf family perusing the treetop market stalls.
i:A weaver, expertly making a large basket from coppiced willow.
i:Several elderly Aarakocra, circled around a wet fire, watching the smoke trail to read the change in the air currents.
i:Fluffy hatchlings learning to fly.
i:Strings of braided, dried onions hanging from an overhanging eave.
i:An intricately carved incense burner, fashioned from an extraplanar variety of bright, lightweight wood, in the shape of an exotic bird with spread wings.
i:A few females, laughing and chatting, while splitting feathers and rendering glue to fletch arrows.
i:Several large snakes spit-roasting over hot coals.
i:A pair of aarakocra are engaged in a game of dexterity, flicking wooden discs across a waxed crosscut of a tree, aiming to land their discs on or within certain rings. Several onlookers react avidly after each turn.
i:Wide shelves of gigantic, petrified mushroom hang out over the expanse below. Aarakocra come and go from these shelves.
i:An older aarakocra with a heavy scroll case lashed across the small of their back, delivering news from a neighbouring tribe.
i:A group of young aarakocra males, conspicuously glancing at a nearby group of female aarakocra while sparring. The females seem to find their behavior ridiculous, albeit eye-catching.
i:A master ranger and their adolescent apprentice are setting out for a trek through the forest canopy. The younger aarakocra is hopping after the adult, asking her question after question about what they’ll see in the world.
i:The tribe’s shaman, sounding a singing bowl, listening for the song of the Vaati.
i:An air genasi monk, training in aarakocra martial forms with a group of children.
i:Thick branches, freshly cut, leaning against the outer wall of a spearmaker's hut.
i:A mother and her two hatchlings, sitting across from each other on either side of a loom, weaving a bright green boundary banner.
i:A wild-haired gnome, laughing hysterically as he lands his gyroscopic flying machine in the midst of the nest.
i:A ceremonial dance, accompanied by the powerful rhythms of large wooden drums.
}