{
n:bardsong
d:d6 Bard sings...
i:The Ballad of the Sticky Gnome. "Don't let him touch your pots or pans / And never let him spy your clams / Don't take a penny from his hands / Don't ask him where he's been!" Loud, boisterous, and rude, this one is always a favourite. Save it for late in your set and watch the drunks lap it up!
i:If I Had A Battleaxe. "If I had a battleaxe / I'd rage in the morning / I'd rage in the evening / All over your face.” Know your audience with this one. If passions are running high, you might have a brawl on your hands. Plenty of publicans have banned this one.
i:The Wreck of The Ubra Utsira. "With no load but a horde two thousand orcs strong / and a captain more vicious than shrewd / The course was false set, the rocks loomed and were met / And that foul ship and crew were a bone to be chewed." It's hard to have sympathy for orcs, but the tale of the invasion force that perished when the Ubra Utsira beached itself on a spit of rock home to a rot of ghouls has become legend. This one is somber and melancholy.
i:Tiger's Jar. "Yesterday a mage came out to wonder / trapped a rakshasa inside a jar / Fearless when the glass began to thunder / Torn apart when prey began to snarl." At once mocking and cautionary, the story of an arrogant mage who tried to enslave a creature far more powerful than himself takes a different tone dependent on the audience being played to.
i:Where Have All The Dryads Gone? "Where have all the dryads gone, long time ago? / Where have all the dryads gone? / Young men have plucked them, every one / Oh when will they ever learn?" A delicate, heartbreaking plea for a return to the simpler, more magical past, before adventurers tore up the countryside murdering anything that doesn't resemble a playable race.
i:My Blank Pages. "Crimson flames tied round my fingers, rollin' high and mighty traps / Pounced with fire on flamin' foes using magic as my axe / "You'll never see the sun," said I, power in my brow / Ah, but I must rest again, and read before lights out." A gentle mockery of book-learnin' wizards, always having to stop and study before they can blast people again. Probably written by a sorcerer who fancied himself a comedian.
}