{
d:d50 Knights 
i:Sir Gawain: A brilliant shield, Pentangle emblazoned. Armour as shiny as virtue. Seeks: The Green Chapel, where he is to be decapitated, but he seems lost… Wields: A green girdle that prevents dismemberment.
i:Sir Patrick Spens: Dripping wet, drowned. Admirably dressed as admiralty. Seeks: Revenge on the king who ordered him out to sea in the season of storms. Wields: Ghost sailor boy, climbs high in the sky to survey the land, sees bad weather and omens.
i:The Bacheler: Despondent, desperate, disheveled. He’s out of his depth. Seeks: The answer to a question: What do women most desire? Wields: A letter of high authority ordering execution, no victim’s name yet written.
i:The Knight with the Rowan Shield: Deeply wounded, rides with hawk and hound at heel. Seeks: The lake of the witch who can clean and heal his wound. Wields: A golden rod. When immersed in a river or lake, it summons the water spirits.
i:Herr Olof: Courtly garments, a beautiful saddle. Dripping and drowned from the mermaid’s lair. Seeks: His wedding. He got lost on the way there. Has it really been so long? Wields: A fine goblet, a gift from a maiden. Drinking from it makes you forget yourself.
i:Herr Holger: Wealthy, thin, ghoulish in aspect. His head has been stitched back on. Seeks: To warn mortals of the torments of hell, to make thieves and tax collectors repent. Wields: A sack of gold coins from hell’s coffers. Each can pay a devil to do an evil deed.
i:Sir Tamlin: Misty in figure, too human to be fairy. Yearns to return to our world. Seeks: To keep trespassers from the fey places, to punish them if they do pass. Wields: A pure rose, eating it will purge the body of all curses, illness, pregnancies.
i:Redcrosse Knight: Heavily armed, the crimson cross on his breast. A dragon killer. Seeks: The castle of Arthur, where his wedding will be held. Wields: His wife-to-be, the maiden matchless in virtue, Una.
i:Sir Bedivere: Beyond distraught, weeping as he rides. He is lost without his liege. One handed. Seeks: The lake where he might let go the royal blade and fulfil his king’s last wish. Wields: Excalibur, the mighty brand of Arthur.
i:The Green Knight: Entirely Emerald Green from forehead to foot. Carries a heavy axe. Seeks: To challenge the virtue of proud nobility by beating them in a beheading contest. Wields: His own head. If deprived of it, he’d do a lot to get it back.
i:Sir Guiomar: Prefers talking to fighting, struggles with his lust. Seeks: To protect a newborn child delivered to his care. It may have a great destiny. Wields: A token of love from a fairy most high.
i:Sir Britomart: A lady-knight of perfect chastity. Fair and courteous and a lover of jousts. Seeks: Her destiny, a man worthy of her hand in marriage. Wields: An enchanted promise ring. The wearer must keep the bond their swear on it.
i:Sir Bors the Younger: A scar on his forehead marks him. Takes his chastity most seriously. Seeks: The way home. He has fulfilled his quest and lived. Wields: A communion wafer, consecrated at the mass of the holy Grail.
i:Sir Brunor: An upstart, his coat covered in ghastly gore. Very used to being laughed at. Seeks: Revenge for his father’s death. Wields: A heart shaped stone. Beats violently when a murderer is near.
i:Sir Satyrane: Strangely chivalrous for a hairy, lusty satyr. Prone to wildness. Seeks: An instructor, preferably a fair maiden, to teach him better chivalry. Wields: The girdle of a notable lady, how did he get that?
i:Sir Marinell: A watery, slippery, amphibian fellow. Fears women because one is fated to kill him. Seeks: He’s trying to drown himself, a wizard has convinced him to, but it doesn’t work. Wields: A string of sea-pearls. Each can be turned into a large, rubbery, floating bubble.
i:Sir Artegall: A sore loser, a great champion. Dressed in the armour Achilles wore, how old school. Seeks: To resolve conflicts between arguing parties fairly and justly. Wields: A blade that can cut through any material.
i:Sir Pelleas: A stammering, pathetic young knight. Gentle and undeceiving. Seeks: Solace from his grief, his one true love has slept with another knight. Wields: A beautiful gold arm ring. It is worth a lot. How hard would it be to take?
i:Sir Sagramore: Hot tempered and good. Prone to fits. Seeks: To find a quest worthy of his knighthood, to prove himself. Wields: A deed to land in a faraway kingdom.
i:Sir Galehaut: Gigantic heritage. Appears fierce at first but hides a most honourable soul. Seeks: To rescue his dearest friend, captured nearby. Wields: A turbid, passionate letter of love to an unnamed beloved.
i:Sir Dinadan: An extrovert of cynical humour. He smiles, he cajoles, he coaxes. Seeks: A bard who is willing to play an insulting ballad in the king’s court. Wields: A most slanderous tract, a fantastic insult written on parchment.
i:Sir Perceval: Ignorant of the world, he wants to fit in, he wants to do his best. Seeks: The unicorn. He doesn’t know if he should kill it. Wields: A witch’s token of affection. If people turn jealous of the wielder, they become frogs.
i:Sir Kay: A mocking, opportunistic, mean knight. He doesn’t realize the harm he does. Seeks: A tournament worthy of his knightly prowess. Wields: A sharp squire, the best one could hope for. Loyal and clever and perfect in measure.
i:Sir Lionel: A vengeful character, eager to resent. He’s constantly preening his moustache. Seeks: A huge wild boar which killed the family of a noble lady. Wields: A fine hunting hound, with a top-notch sense of smell and greater speed.
i:Sir Turquine: Obviously villainous, roughish, uncourtly and cruel. Seeks: To delight his appetite for torture, to cause pain in others and pleasure in himself. Wields: A whip of brairs. Does little damage but strings like no tomorrow.
i:Sir Daniel: Determined beyond sense, unable to surrender. Seeks: An enemy king, with an inventible army of giants and mechanical horrors, to slay. Wields: An enchanted net that can be thrown far, a magic sword, a camel.
i:Sir Moriaen: A dark skinned knight in Moorish attire. Dispossessed, needing allies. Seeks: To be reunited with his father and reclaim his mother’s lands. Wields: A round shield, perfectly black. It absorbs light like nothing else.
i:Sir Palamedes: Not a knight but a faris, converted and comedic. Seeks: A way to his homeland, to visit his family. Wields: A finest raiment of foreign fashion, a trained singing bird that can talk like a child.
i:Sir Tor: Born as shepherd, revealed to have courtly blood. No manners but a good heart. Seeks: A strange dog, a hound mysteriously, purely white. Wields: A fine shepherd’s crook, it won’t let go what it latches.
i:Sir Calogrenant: Eloquent beyond measure, courtly as ever. Seeks: To escape a rogue knight, who is chasing him down. Wields: A bladder of water from an enchanted spring, pouring it out will summon a rainstorm.
i:Sir Roland: A haughty paladin. His head is very clearly exploded. Yet he continues on. Seeks: The gate of heaven, which he so rightly deserves to enter. Wields: A frightfully loud war horn. Its sound resounds across plains and valleys.
i:Sir Oliver: A calculating, wise paladin. How surprising. Seeks: A true emperor who can unite the world. Wields: A holy of holies, a relic most dear. Should he keep it for himself or return it?
i:Sir Fierabras: A gigantic faris. He seems imposing but weak willed, easily convinced. Seeks: Temples to wreck, clergy to kill, reliquaries to pillage. Wields: A huge riding horse. It could carry 4 riders in heavy arms, tons of baggage.
i:The Fause Knight: Armour forehead to foot, the Devil riding is dis-guise. Seeks: To web fools in words. Turn your back and you’re done for. Stand and answer to survive. Wields: A satanic fiddle. Its sound drive mortals to mad dancing. 
i:Sir Hoel: Virtuous and far seeing, a saint in the making. Seeks: A cure to the poison coursing through his veins, a bane to his bane. Wields: A bottle of fine wine that never empties.
i:Sir Launfal: A generous, jolly knight. He loves to host and adores a good boast. Seeks: A new court to call home. He’s lost favor, been ejected, from his old castle. Wields: An invisible butler. It serves its master perfectly but cannot commit violence.
i:Sir Astolfo: An experienced knight wielding sorcerous powers. A bit wooden due to a curse. Seeks: A chariot that can carry him to the moon, where the wits of his comrade are hidden. Wields: A magic lance which throws opponents with the slightest touch.
i:Sir Ruggiero: A conflicted soul, torn between two faiths, between two bloods in his veins. Seeks: An oracle who will tell him his destiny. Surely he will find two conflicting fates. Wields: A mighty hippogriff from far off lands.
i:Sir Lancelot: Handsome, high status, high stature, a heroic kind. A love like no other lurks inside. Seeks: A shoulder to cry on, he was tricked into sleeping with a maid who is not his true love. Wields: A stone from a holy grave, it repels the undead and devils from the holder.
i:Sir Ganelon: His pride leads easily to treachery, his worst crimes are committed already. Seeks: To find a place to hide, to lay low for a time or forever, whichever comes first. Wields: Thirty pieces of silver, which the devil can smell, track perfectly.
i:Sir Renaud: Haphazard and foolish. Beloved by his brothers, unfortunately separated. Seeks: To avoid punishment for a murder he accidentally committed. Wields: The last dregs of a love potion soaked into his kerchief, dripping til tis drunk.
i:Sir Galahad: Most perfect, most pure, as if a halo surrounds him. He fights, he wins, he spares. Seeks: The Holy Grail. Wields: Nothing but what chivalry demands.
i:Sir Dagonet: A hilarious jester but an unrepentant coward. He’s a buffoon but he’s kept around. Seeks: To convince someone that he’s prevailed in a fight, he’s even battered his own shield. Wields: A magic sword. It’s not actually magic, someone was just humouring this knight.
i:Sir Pellinore: An aged old man who rambles easily. Strokes his beard and gazes off into space. Seeks: The Questing Beast, which he is destined to chase but never catch. Wields: A sword that will break any blade it crosses it with.
i:Sir Erec: He’s getting older, the hair turning grey. Yearns for domestic life, the little things. Seeks: To court the maid he has fallen for, however he is neglecting an important quest. Wields: A sack of infinite silver coins. If he tells of the sack’s magic, it will cease to work.
i:Herr Karl: A clever young man, he yearns badly to get his way. Seeks: To free his true love from a covenant, he plans to fake his own death. Wields: A most elegant burial shroud, a tray of fine funeral meats.
i:Sir Aldingar: A cagey character, histories of mistakes trial behind. Seeks: A cure for the leprosy which has afflicted him as punishment for his sins. Wields: A curative ointment, it eases pain incredibly but does nothing more.
i:Sir Cawline: Proud but he can back it up, boasts but he can prove it. Seeks: To slay the Elven King, a deed to win his lady’s love. Wields: A giant’s thigh bone, an unbreakable beater, a bludgeon bar-none.
i:Herr Peder: An expert evader, honest to none. He looks dishevelled, unravelled. Seeks: A soul to confess his sins to. He has done disgusting things, but can he admit it? Wields: A charter from the highest authority, to force any captain to make any journey.
i:Sir Gornemant: He’s seen many a squire grow to a good knight, hopeful at heart. Seeks: A squire with potential to tutor in proper chivalry. Wields: Almace, a time-honoured blade. Totally mundane, but its name is feared.
}