[
d:"In town, there have been rumors of late of an eerie spectral figure wandering the streets late at night, carrying what appears to be a large cauldron. None have dared approach it, rumors are whispered around town that it’s the 'ghost:of Chopper, come to exact revenge', although the town guards have been called a few times, by the time they make it to the scene the ghostly figure is nowhere to be found. The guards have taken to ignoring these reports, and pointing the townspeople who still pester them to consult with the local church."
d:The ghost appears almost formless, barely human in shape, almost like a person who had a sheet thrown over their head. However, anyone brave enough to look will be quite sure they can make out a facial expression. The ghost has never been heard to speak, not that many have tried to strike up conversation.
d:Should the party be brave enough to approach this figure, the ghost will appear to smile warmly, and ladle out a bowl of soup to whomsoever dares approach. (The simple wooden bowls and any uneaten soup disappear mysteriously by morning. Any effects can only be activated once per day, while the soup is still warm.)
]
{
d:d10 Each night, Soup Ghost will serve various possible soups:
i:Chicken and Vegetable. Warm and hearty, this soup contains fresh local vegetables, large chunks of chicken and a rich, savory broth. Consuming this soup warms you from within, making you feel much more comfortable in the cold night air. Particularly good if you have a cold. (Restores 1d3 health and cures any 1 minor disease)
i:Herring Chowder. A rich creamy chowder stuffed with delicious chunks of herring, similar to those fished up from the local bay. Consuming this rich soup makes you feel wonderfully full (+1 Con for 6 hours)
i:Lobster Bisque. A deliciously smooth blend of lobster and cream, with just the right amount of spices. You wonder whether or not a few lobsters disappeared out of some of the fishermen’s traps down at the docks to make this. Consuming this elegant soup makes you feel a bit higher class than perhaps you ought (+1 Cha for 6 hours).
i:Pea Soup. A hearty green pea soup with a pleasant amount of savory ham and just the right touch of salt and pepper. A favorite among some of the local populace, when they can afford to make it. (Restore +1 HP per hour, for 4 hours)
i:Rabbit Stew. Delicious bits of wild rabbit, potatoes and various edible vegetables which can be found in this area. (+1 Dex for 6 hours)
i:Bean Soup. Loaded with local red beans, this delicious soup has a fantastic blend of spices that make even this relatively normal (when not served by a ghost) soup taste almost exotic. This is probably the best bean soup you’ve ever had (don’t tell the chef at your local tavern however). (+1 Str for 6 hours)
i:Cream of Mushroom. Delicious, smooth and savory, this wonderful blend of mushrooms and cream makes you feel full, content and a bit sleepy. Eating this makes you feel as if you’re drifting off into a pleasant warm fog - a small part of you wonders what kind of mushrooms these were… (Restore 1d6 health. Once per hour, for 4 hours, make a DC 7 will save or fall asleep)
i:Tomato Soup. Warm, rich and creamy. For some reason, as you eat this soup, you find yourself fantasizing about pressing warm cheese between two pieces of bread. What an odd thought. (For the next 6 hours, you may add +1 to any roll after you have rolled it. You can do this 1d3 times)
i:Cucumber Soup. Light, smooth, delicious and refreshing. You probably didn’t even know cucumbers could be made into a soup. (+1 Int for 6 hours)
i:Onion Soup. An interesting variation of the onion soups you generally find locally, this one has warm cheese delightfully bubbling on the top and delicious bits of bread crust in it that have been softened by the broth. (+1 to all trained skill checks for 6 hours)
}
