{
d:d20 This is a(n)
i:Ultroloth
i:Barghest (who has come to Gehenna after collecting seventeen goblin souls)
i:Altraloth
i:Piscoloth
i:Hydroloth
i:Echinoloth
i:Voor
i:Gacholoth
i:Dergholoth
i:Dergholoth
i:Arcanaloth
i:Arcanaloth
i:Nycaloth
i:Nycaloth
i:Nycaloth
i:Mezzoloth
i:Mezzoloth
i:Mezzoloth
i:Mezzoloth
i:Skeroloth
}
{
d:d12 with the following body modification:
i:Tattoos just under the surface of their skin/chitin/mucous membranes.
i:Studs across their body.
i:Silver or gold thread woven through their skin.
i:Scars on their body cut in arcane patterns.
i:Pieces of armor that have been bolted on to their body.
i:Rings embedded throughout their skin.
i:Claws/fingernails that have been elaborately carved and painted.
i:Eyes that have been tattooed a different color.
i:Subcutaneous implants.
i:Long strips of bones embedded through holes in their body.
i:Elaborate paintings on the surface of their skin.
i:They were branded by a hot iron.
}
{
d:d12 Their personal decoration is:
i:A robe of zombie tongues sewn together.
i:An elaborate mask made of bone or scales.
i:A well crafted weapon that they took from a former enemy.
i:A pet canoloth with the yugoloth's name branded upon it.
i:A full jumpsuit made of precious coins sewn together.
i:A jacket or trenchcoat made from Stenchkow leather.
i:An iridescent tiara.
i:A random fiendish animal worn as a scarf (may be alive).
i:A necklace of ears dipped in wax.
i:Jewelry. Lots and lots of jewelry, sometimes worn in unconventional ways.
i:The skin of a random demon or devil. Very affluent yugoloths may wear the skin of a celestial instead.
i:A rope of knucklebones threaded together and wrapped around their body.
}
{
d:d3 Politically, this Yugoloth is a member of:
i:The Pragmatics political faction.
i:The Spirituals political faction.
i:Whichever faction is making the best offer at the moment.
}
{
d:d20 In addition to the usual Yugoloth self-centered greed, their personality is:
i:Hateful
i:Merry
i:Cautious
i:Narcissistic
i:Bitter
i:Envious
i:Cloying
i:Carefree
i:Enigmatic
i:Brusque
i:Flamboyant
i:Extroverted
i:Introverted
i:Judgemental
i:Sarcastic
i:Polite
i:Spiteful
i:Racist/speciest
i:Thoughtful
i:Inquisitive
}
{
d:d20 Their current motivation for approaching the party is:
i:They wish to offer a paid service (security services, spellcasting, pimping).
i:They want to sell a unique item (which may be stolen) or slave.
i:They like a piece of the characters outfit or armor and want to buy it.
i:Curiousity about obvious foreigners.
i:They're selling secrets or gossip.
i:They have an entrepreneurial idea and are looking for venture capitalists to fund it.
i:They view the party as potential slaves and may try to subdue them if they do not have a brand marking them as protected by another yugoloth company.
i:They want to get the party involved in yugoloth politics.
i:They are thinking of hiring the party as specialist consultants.
i:They are con artists and this is a scheme of some sort.
i:Their mercenary contract is ending soon and they're looking for potential employers once it expires.
i:Networking.
i:Practicing the social skills they learned in a self-improvement class.
i:Finding a way out of Gehenna for reasons of their own.
i:To hear new stories of faraway lands (and potential new markets).
i:They just got coverage with a reliable police force and want to test out their coverage by passive-aggressively insulting foreigners for their own amusement.
i:To figure out the party's capabilities and determine if they are a potential victim, ally, or consultant.
i:To discuss some emotional issue that they just can't talk about with another yugoloth.
i:They are conducting an A/B test of some new design for a product and want the party to take an opinion poll.
i:Something really bad, that seems harmless at first.
}